---
title: 'Interesting Topic to think about: Why do we need Causal Inference'
date: 2019-06-18
permalink: /posts/2019/07/blog-post-1/
tags:
  - Topic Review
---

As somebody who get an internship on understanding causal inference, I would like to comment on this topic a little bit. We live in an age where there prediction among machine learning is generally the rule and having good prediction is seems as justifiable for success. Therefore the study of causal inference, which is something that has been hot in Statistics for a while, does seem a little strange to me. Why do we actually need it?

It is often taught in statistics classes that association does not imply causation. Therefore I do found it strange that many statisticians wants so strongly to find methods to find cause and effect relationship in different area. As academic query, this seems interesting but I have not been able to find literature explaining to me why this is important in 'real life' (depends on how you see it).

Working on the problem itself gives me a some understanding on why it is important. In this case, unlike the in conventional machine learning where the data comes from a distribution, you are allowed to control the dependent variable. This might be due to cases where you have prices which you can set, drugs you can administer or meals you can eat. Once you have that, the prediction guarantees are going to be problematic since you are trying to understand the conditional distribution rather than the actual distribution itself.

Lets consider the conventional PAC bound. Here you have $(x,y) \sim \pi(x,y)$ pairs and the function class $\mathcal{F}$ which you want your function to be in. If you have enough data, what the theory guarantee is just that the $\hat{f}$ you find will work well on any other $(x,y) \sim \pi(x,y)$ but it doesn't guarantee you anything about data coming from $(x,y) \sim \pi(x,y\mid x_1 = 1)$ since $\pi(x,y\mid x_1 = 1)$ and  $\pi(x,y)$ is absolutely different. 

How do you solve this problem? At the moment, I am not too sure. I definitely read up in the summer and hopefully update you (and the future me) with some interesting updates in the coming months.

