---
title: Find the solution to a 'What If' Problem.
date: 2019-07-14
permalink: /posts/2019/07/blog-post-2/
tags:
  - Topic Review
---

It is often in first few lectures of 'Introduction to Statistics' class that we learn the phrase 'Association does not implies Causation'. This actually is what I have been wondering about when I first hear the term 'causation analysis'. How should we understand this from just panel data?

This is the second blog post on Causation Analysis. (The first one is in link [here](https://yiliu9090.github.io//posts/2019/07/blog-post-1/) which touches on why it is important to do causation analysis.) Here I am going to look briefly how to do a causation analysis in a statistical sense. This is by no means an expert opinion, just something I want to write about to remind myself in the future. 

One interesting thing to look at is the 'What If' Problem. The idea goes as follows: suppose I made a treatment $a$ and observe $y$, I would need to have a control $y_c$ to understand if $a$ has any effect on $y$. However, there are many cases where this is impossible. For example, in pricing, you cannot charge two person different prices at any one time. In medical science, you obviously cannot do something to a healthy person. In either cases the control is missing and therefore there is no way of knowing if $a$ has any causal effect on $y$. 

However, there another way to look at it. If we have a good estimator $\hat{y}_c$, shrines new light on the problem. I can try to take the difference $y - \hat{y}_c$ and see if the difference is significant. Of course it is not that trivial since $\hat{y}_c$ is hard to find and a prediction interval for $\hat{y}_c$ might be even harder but at least we have something work with.

This I think is a good point to start off this series and I will updating more soon. 




