---
title: 'Reading Tonight: Copulas: An interesting way to generated correlated random variables.'
date: 2019-06-15
permalink: /posts/2019/06/blog-post-3/
tags:
  - Chapter Review
  - Stochastic Simulations 
---
This blog post is nothing but an quick note from reading 'Monte Carlo and Quasi-Monte Carlo Sampling' by Christiane Lemieux. The interesting thing here is the copulas which I have not read about. (The ideas might be used somewhere but unfortunately I have not heard about it until) This is interesting since I have always been wondering about the generation of correlated random variables besides just normal random variables. The difficulty lies in the fact that it is not clear how to correlated two random variables besides just trying to compute the conditional distributions which in itself is extremely difficult most of the time.

I would suggest reading Chapter 2.6 of the book but I would like to note down a simple summary for the future me who might want to read this some day. Consider the fact that I want to generate a set of $N$ correlated variable from $H$, where $H$ is distribution defined by the CDF $H$ (abuse some notation here!)

Now, I can construct $(Z_1, \ldots Z_N)$ from iid Gaussian distribution with a correlation matrix $\Sigma$. This is just Cholesky decomposition. Then we let $U_i = \Phi^{-1}(Z_i)$. Note that since $Z_i$ is correlated, $U_i$ are correlated too!. However note that 
$\mathbb{P}(U_1 \leq u_1) = \mathbb{P}( \Phi^{-1}(Z_1) \leq u_1) =  \mathbb{P}( Z_1 \leq \Phi(u_1)) = u_1 $ 

So marginally we have uniform distribution still. Now we can generated $H^{-1}(U_i)$ which can (hopefully) be correlated!. We can construct really hard example that may be independent but I think usually it is not. However, it did not specify the level of correlation between $H^{-1}(U_i)$ which I think is much harder to compute. However the sign of the correlation is easy to control since $\Phi$  and $H$ are mono-tonic distributions and therefore the sign is preserved. 

We can now generate exponential, hence some gamma random variables that are correlated. Combining it with some kind of rejection sampling may not be difficult if we want to same pairwise correlation since we can do rejection sampling on each of them and throw away those that did not make the cut. This might change the correlation structure though.

Reference 
================
Lemieux, Christiane, Monte Carlo and Quasi-Monte Carlo Sampling, Springer-Verlag New York Inc., 2010, pp. 53–54.

