---
title: 'Reading Tonight: Dynamic Pricing Theory'
date: 2019-06-18
permalink: /posts/2019/06/blog-post-4/
tags:
  - Paper Review
  - Bandit Algorithm
  - Stochastic Optimization 
---

This is something that comes up at the internship in Wayfair this year (2019 for me in the future). It is interesting topic which combine both statistical learning theory and pricing optimization. 

The entire research field starts off a century ago but it is with the raise internet sales platforms (like Wayfair, Amazon, Ebay, etc...) that make this problem highly interesting. In this blog post, I will focusing on what I can learn from this paper 'Dynamic Pricing and Learning, Historical Origin, Current Research and New Direction' by Arnoud V. den Boer. This paper is 5 years old at the time of the review but it does give me some ideas of what Dynamic Pricing Theory is. At least its goals, some of the key results. 

The key to the estimation problem is to come up with a $p$ which under the unknown demand curve $F(p)$ (assume to monotonically decreasing so that there is unique maximal) that gives the most revenue $pF(p)$ (or profit). This can sometimes be seen as a continuous version of a bandit algorithm which there are optimal solution of expected regret equals to $\sqrt{T}$ where $T$ is time. The interesting thing is that on a discrete case the optimal Regret is in $\log(T)$ but the continuous case it is in $\sqrt(T)$.  

The algorithms generally involves some exploration and exploitation trade-off. It involves some kind of myopic optimization (optimization based on the current data) with some additional noise to give some explorations. Most assume a linear model but it is likely that a locally Lipchitz function might be enough if we have good initialization. 

References
==============
den Boer A V. Dynamic pricing and learning: historical origins, current research, and new directions[J]. Surveys in operations research and management science, 2015, 20(1): 1-18.